Decouple authentication guide (#29)
clearhaus/3DSv2-api-documentation: source/decoupled_authentication.rst

Reviewer: Code blocks indentation seems to be jumpy :smile:

Author: yes, fuck rst.

.. _3ds_decoupled_authentication:

Decoupled Authentication
=========================

There are four different authentication flows in the 3-D Secure protocol. The decoupled authentication
flow is one of them. The decoupled authentication flow is an asynchronous process.

> The ACS can determine decoupled authentication fallback for a authentication transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ACS can determine decoupled authentication fallback for an authentication transaction.
```

If a fallback is determined, `threeDSRequestorPriorAuthenticationInfo` is required.

The requestor can set the TTL for the transaction by setting the `threeDSRequestorDecMaxTime`.

> The `threeDSRequestorDecMaxTime` accepts numeric values between `00001` and `10080` which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `threeDSRequestorDecMaxTime` accepts numeric values between `00001` and `10080` (7 days) which
```

determines the TTL in minutes.

> Once the cardholder has authenticated the transaction and the 3-D secure server has

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the cardholder has authenticated the transaction and the 3-D Secure server has
```

Perhaps also "Server"?

Also in other places.

received the `RReq`, the 3-D secure server will notify the requestor by utilizing the
`notificationURL` which will contain the `threeDSServerTransID` and `messageVersion`.
If no RReq is received within the TTL, the transaction will be considered as failed.
The 3-D secure server will only try to notify the requestor once.

The requestor shall use the `threeDSServerTransID` to retrieve the authentication value
by making a request towards the `/postauth` endpoint.

Decoupled authentication flow example
**************************************

> The following examples show the AReq and ARes messages for the decoupled authentication flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show an AReq and ARes messages for a decoupled authentication flow.
```

> The following examples show an AReq and ARes messages for a decoupled authentication flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following examples show AReq and ARes messages for a decoupled authentication flow.
```

        "mobilePhone": {
          "cc": "123",
          "subscriber": "123456789"
        },
        "billAddrCity": "Bill City Name",
        "billAddrCountry": "840",
        "billAddrLine1": "Bill Address Line 1",
        "billAddrPostCode": "Bill Post Code",
        "billAddrState": "CO",
        "shipAddrCity": "Ship City Name",
        "shipAddrCountry": "840",
        "shipAddrLine1": "Ship Address Line 1",
        "shipAddrPostCode": "Ship Post Code",
        "shipAddrState": "CO"
    }

.. code-block:: json
   :linenos:
   :caption: Example ARes, valid for 2.2.0.

   {
        "acsChallengeMandated": "Y",
        "acsDecConInd": "Y",
        "acsOperatorID": "3dsecureio-standin-acs",
        "acsReferenceNumber": "3dsecureio-standin-acs",
        "acsTransID": "fb95703f-92e7-4278-a20c-62b9a9200e84",
        "authenticationType": "04",
        "cardholderInfo": "01",
        "dsReferenceNumber": "3dsecureio-standin-ds",
        "dsTransID": "87cbe14f-5960-4a01-a0bb-ae2c9871804a",
        "messageType": "ARes",
        "messageVersion": "2.2.0",
        "threeDSServerTransID": "5a8007b9-6d26-49cf-a371-3f722bba4ffc",
        "transStatus": "D"
    }

> Once the cardholder have authenticated the transaction, the 3-D secure server will notify the requestor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the cardholder has authenticated the transaction, the 3-D secure server will notify the requestor.
```

.. _3ds_decoupled_authentication:

Decoupled Authentication
=========================

There are four different authentication flows in the 3-D Secure protocol. The decoupled authentication
flow is one of them. The decoupled authentication flow is an asynchronous process.

The ACS can determine decoupled authentication fallback for an authentication transaction.
If a fallback is determined, `threeDSRequestorPriorAuthenticationInfo` is required.

The requestor can set the TTL for the transaction by setting the `threeDSRequestorDecMaxTime`.
The `threeDSRequestorDecMaxTime` accepts numeric values between `00001` and `10080` (7 days) which
determines the TTL in minutes.

The requestor shall use the `threeDSServerTransID` to retrieve the authentication value
by making a request towards the `/postauth` endpoint.

> Once we receive the authentication value from the ACS, we will only store the authentication value for 20 minutes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once we receive the authentication value from the ACS, we will only store it for 20 minutes.
```

:man_shrugging:

> We suggest that the requestor should poll the `/postauth` endpoint at least every 20 minutes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We therefore suggest that the requestor should poll the `/postauth` endpoint at least every 20 minutes.
```

:man_shrugging:

> If the requestor does not poll the `/postauth` endpoint within the TTL, the authentication value will be deleted.

Reviewer 2: I guess we always deleted the AV after the TTL has passed, not only if the requestor has not polled for it :wink: 

```suggestion
The authentication value is deleted when the TTL has passed.
```

:man_shrugging:

> If the 3-D secure server has not received the RReq message the following response will be returned:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the 3-D Secure Server has not received the RReq message the following response will be returned:
```

Reviewer 2: I suspect we try to be consistent with "3-D Secure Server" everywhere :crossed_fingers:

.. _decoupled_authentication:

Decoupled Authentication
=========================

> The decoupled authentication is a feature that allows you to authenticate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Decoupled authentication is a feature that allows you to authenticate
```

the cardholder during the payment process. This is a different approach to

> challenge flow where the authentication is done in one simultaneous flow.

Reviewer: It is not clear to me from this part what the difference of the two flow types are :shrug: 

- Decoupled authentication: during payment process
- Non-decoupled authentication: during payment? But isn't this also a payment process?

You only write something about the challenge flow, but I suspect that the same goes for a non challenge flow and that a decoupled flow can also be considered a challenge flow :shrug: 

Do we have some documentation where we can get inspired on how to describe decoupled authentication, and how it differentiates from the other flows?

Author: You are right! It can be more clear.
I'm going to rewrite it.
e.g.

A transaction can go through different flows:
- Frictionless flow
- Challenge flow
- Decoupled authentication flow
- SPC flow.

a decoupled authentication flow is a asynchronous authentication process.

Author: and include some examples.
AReq, ARes and RReq

> The decoupled authentication is a two-step process where the authentication

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Decoupled authentication is a two-step process, where the authentication
```

is done in a separate flow from the payment process.

The ACS can determine decoupled authentication fallback for a authentication transaction.
If a fallback is determined, `threeDSRequestorPriorAuthenticationInfo`is required.

The requestor can set the TTL for the transaction by setting the `threeDSRequestorDecMaxTime`.

> The threeDSRequestorDecMaxTime accepts numeric values between `00001` and `10080` which

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `threeDSRequestorDecMaxTime` accepts numeric values between `00001` and `10080` which
```
